The World Environment Day was instituted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1972, to commemorate the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment. The first World Environment Day was observed in 1974 in Spokane city, United States, with the theme “Only One Earth”. Since then it is observed every year with a specific theme. Every year the World Environment Day is celebrated by a different country that plays the host of the events. India had twice been the host of World Environment Day, both in 2011 and 2018 with the theme – Forests: Nature at Your Service and Beat Plastic Pollution respectively.

In India, the National Security Council has taken up the responsibility of the World Environment Day events. It has been managing campaigns for every consecutive year since 1999.
National Security Council (NSC) of India provides promotional material including badges of the environment day, banners, posters and informational booklets to the public and members. Every year over 500 government and non-government organizations including the municipalities and all, get benefited from the NSC material.

How is World Environment Day Celebrated?

Environment day is celebrated with a prime objective to make efforts conducive to retain the true form of the environment, without damaging it. Organizations support the WED by taking greener initiatives in offices.

Issues like carbon footprint, waste disposal, and deforestations, etc. are addressed and people commit to new methods conducive to the environment growth.

Guidelines are issued to manufacturing industries and other businesses instructing or advising them to adopt environment-friendly policies. Many businesses come forward and display their commitment towards a safe and healthy environment and to reduce any human impacts on it.

Any common person can also actively participate in World Environment Day by making a commitment to an eco-friendly lifestyle. Use alternative sources of energy, avoid overuse of resources and plant a sapling in your neighborhood. There are thousands of such activities that you can do on World Environment Day.

Conclusion

Celebration of World Environment Day is essential to keep the people aware of the cause of environmental protection and commit for the same. It is a platform for the world to come together on a significant issue of environmental protection and make necessary plans.
